Polyculture Use Case: Search Plants (#169)
ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT: doc/usecases/polyculture/search_plants.md

# Use Case: Search Plants

## Summary

- **Scope:** Plants Layer
- **Level:** User Goal
- **Actors:** App User
- **Brief:** The user can search for plants to add to her map and sort results by different criterion.

> - **Status:** Draft

Reviewer: This can be assigned to Moritz and Paul. (like #115  doc/usecases/map_search.md), they actually already work on it.

@badnames @Bushuo

# Use Case: Search Plants

## Summary

- **Scope:** Plants Layer
- **Level:** User Goal
- **Actors:** App User

> - **Brief:** The user can search for plants to add to her map and sort results by different criterion.

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention the search functionality's context within the app, such as "while editing their map" e.g. 
The user can search for plants to add to his map and sort results by different criteria **while editing his green space**

Author: Shouldn't this be clear from the noted scope?

Reviewer: And such things definitely shouldn't be added in "Brief" :wink:

- **Status:** In Progress
- **Assignee:** Moritz, Paul

## Scenarios

- **Precondition:**
  - The user is logged in to the app.
  - The plants layer or seed entry dialog is shown.
- **Main success scenario:**
  - The user types something into the search text box.  
    This will search for partial matches of:
    - names of specific plants (specie or variety)
    - Binomial name (Latin name)
    - German and English common names
    - German and English synonyms
    - Furthermore, other columns can be matched with extra syntax
  - The results are ranked by:
    - Environmental fit
    - Ecological value

> - **Alternative scenario:**

Reviewer 2: There are no alternative scenarios, maybe you can incorporate my suggestion: 

- The user refines his search query by adding or removing search terms or using advanced search filters (alphabetical order or plant size).

Author: I extended the ordering.
https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pull/169/commits/358023b0f04cf9da4074288261da5c35c112c344

# Use Case: Search Plants

## Summary

- **Scope:** Plants Layer
- **Level:** User Goal
- **Actors:** App User
- **Brief:** The user can search for plants to add to her map and sort results by different criterion.
- **Status:** In Progress
- **Assignee:** Moritz, Paul

## Scenarios

- **Precondition:**
  - The user is logged in to the app.

>   - The plants layer is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The plants layer or seed entry dialog is shown.
```

- **Main success scenario:**
  - The user types something into the search text box.  
    This will search for partial matches of:
    - names of specific plants (specie or variety)
    - Binomial name (Latin name)
    - German and English common names
    - German and English synonyms
    - Furthermore, other columns can be matched with extra syntax
  - The results can be sorted by the following criteria:

>     - Companions of existing plants (default)
>     - Environmental fit
>     - Ecological value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Ecological value
    - Environmental fit
    - Companions of existing plants
```

>   - The results can be sorted by the following criteria:
>     - Companions of existing plants (default)
>     - Environmental fit
>     - Ecological value

Reviewer: We think this is a bit better from usability (especially one button less to choose sort order from):

```suggestion
  - The results are ranked by:
    - Environmental fit
    - Ecological value
```

@Benjaminimal @Bushuo @badnames What do you think?
Did you already implement a sort order?
Is ranking more difficult to implement?

@Benjaminimal We think "Companions" are irrelevant when *searching* for plants. The grouping feature is much more useful in this case.
